API Gateway module migration script (#663)
kyma-project/api-gateway: hack/managed-kyma-migration/README.md

If there is no APIGateway CR, then Lifecycle Manager provisions the default APIGateway CR defined in the APIGateway ModuleTemplate. The migration
adds the API Gateway module to the Kyma CR without overwriting existing module configuration.

## Migration test process

### Test scenarios

1. Apply the ModuleTemplate for both `fast` and `regular` channel to DEV Control Plane.

#### SKR without existing modules

1. Create Dev SKR.
2. Execute the migration.
3. Verify that `api-gateway-manager` is installed and the APIGateway CR's status is `Ready`.
4. Verify that `api-gateway` deployment is not present.

#### SKR with an existing module

1. Create Dev SKR.
2. Add the Keda module to the Kyma CR.
   ```yaml
   spec:
     modules:
       - name: keda
   ```
3. Execute the migration.
4. Verify that `api-gateway-manager` is installed and the APIGateway CR's status is `Ready`.
5. Verify that `api-gateway` deployment is not present.

## Module's rollout and migration

### Preparations

1. Executing `kcp taskrun` requires the path to the kubeconfig file of the corresponding Gardener project and permissions to list/get shoots.

### Dev

> 1. Apply the module template to Dev Control Plane.

Reviewer: Should we have this manual step here or already do the rollout to the `kyma/module-manifests` internal repository in this step, but don't migrate on stage? Is there some restriction, other than some crazy people could laready enable the module in fast channel on stage? Doing this manual on Dev feels wrong.

Author: Yeah, crazy people is the only issue here :D

> 1. Apply the module template to Dev Control Plane.

Reviewer: I'm missing the info to merge the PRs with the skip for components. And the PR with the skip in the mothership reconciler. The last might also be done as part of the PoC task? I'm also a little bit confused what is about this skipped components, because this wasn't relevant for Istio.

1. Apply the ModuleTemplate for both `fast` and `regular` channel to DEV Control Plane.
2. Verify that the ModuleTemplate in `fast` and `regular` channel is available on `Dev` environment SKRs.
3. `kcp login` to Dev and run the migration script on all SKRs. To do that, you can use the following command:
   ```shell
   kcp taskrun --gardener-kubeconfig {PATH TO GARDENER PROJECT KUBECONFIG} --gardener-namespace kyma-dev -t all -- ./managed-kyma-migration.sh
   ```
4. Verify that the migration worked as expected by checking the status of APIGateway manifests on Control Plane.
   ```shell
   kubectl get manifests -n kcp-system -o custom-columns=NAME:metadata.name,STATE:status.state | grep api-gateway
   ```
5. Verify that `api-gateway` deployment is not present on any of the SKRs
   ```shell
   kcp taskrun --gardener-kubeconfig {PATH TO GARDENER PROJECT KUBECONFIG} --gardener-namespace kyma-dev -t all -- kubectl get deployment -n kyma-system api-gateway 2>/dev/null
   ```

### Stage

Perform the rollout to Stage together with the SRE team. Since they have already performed the rollout for other modules, they might suggest a different rollout strategy.

#### Prerequisites

> - Reconciliation is disabled for Stage environment (kyma/management-plane-config `PR #4486`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Reconciliation is disabled for the Stage environment. See PR #4486 to the `kyma/management-plane-config` repository.
```

#### Migration procedure

1. Apply the ModuleTemplate for both `fast` and `regular` channel to Stage Control Plane.
2. Verify that the ModuleTemplate in `fast` and `regular` channel is available on `Stage` environment SKRs.
3. `kcp login` to Stage, select some SKRs on `Kyma-Test/Kyma-Integration`, and run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` on them using `kcp taskrun`.
4. Verify if the migration was successful on the SKRs by checking the status of APIGateway CR and the reconciler's components.
5. Run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` for all SKRs in Kyma-Test and Kyma-Integration global accounts.
6. Verify if the migration worked as expected.
7. Run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` for the whole Canary landscape.
8. Verify if the migration worked as expected.

### Prod

> Perform the rollout to `Prod` together with the SRE team. Since they have already performed the rollout for other modules, they might suggest a different rollout strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Perform the rollout to Prod together with the SRE team. Since they have already performed the rollout for other modules, they might suggest a different rollout strategy.
```

#### Prerequisites

> - Reconciliation is disabled for Prod environment (kyma/management-plane-config `PR #4487`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Reconciliation is disabled for the Prod environment. See PR #4487 to the `kyma/management-plane-config` repository.
```

#### Migration procedure

1. Commit the module manifest to `regular` and `fast` channel in the `kyma/module-manifests` internal repository.
2. Verify that the ModuleTemplates are present in `kyma/kyma-modules` internal repository.
3. Verify that the ModuleTemplate in both channels are available on `Prod` environment SKRs.

> 4. `kcp login` to Prod, select some SKRs on `Kyma-Test/Kyma-Integration`, and run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` on them using `kcp taskrun`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `kcp login` to Prod, select some SAP BTP, Kyma runtime clusters on `Kyma-Test/Kyma-Integration`, and run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` on them using `kcp taskrun`.
```

> 5. Verify if the migration was successful on the SKRs by checking the status of APIGateway CR and the reconciler's components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Verify if the migration was successful on the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime clusters by checking the status of APIGateway CR and the reconciler's components.
```

> 6. Run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` for all SKRs in Trial global accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Run `managed-kyma-migration.sh` for all SAP BTP, Kyma runtime clusters in Trial global accounts.
```
